Something big is going on,
I know it.
Are they gossiping?
Is it about that
jerk in Pediatrics
that yelled at a really
nice girl named Lexie?
Doubtful. Oh!
Maybe Mrs. Dempsey
woke up from her coma.
Well, if that's the case,
we'll have to pool
our knowledge to catch her up
on the last year.
I'll take arts and literature.
Lexie, you take reality TV.
Ooh, docuseries and competition?
I'm on it.
Guys, it's not Mrs. Dempsey.
If it is, obviously,
I'd take health and beauty.
But I think it might be a zebra.
A zebra? Ooh.
That'd be awesome.
I don't know.
Zebras appear cute, but
they're notorious kickers.
No, no, no, Caleb,
"zebra" as in a nickname
for a patient with
an extremely rare condition.
You know that old saying,
if you hear hooves coming,
you can assume it's a horse,
but every once in a while,
it's a zebra.
So? Do they have a diagnosis?
What are the signs? Symptoms?
Well, a headache
is something
you're giving me right now.
Ladies and gentlemen,
I have some intriguing news.
It seems that here today
we may have a zebra.
Ooh!
Yes!
A probablezebra.
Yes. Yes, thank you,
Dr. Jacobs.
This could be...
a career-defining experience.
Let's be professional.
Don't get your hopes up.
Oh, who am I kidding?
I'm fired up!
Usually it's
pneumonia, pneumonia,
pneumonia, but not today!
♪
All right, everyone,
patient is Margaret Hamden.
Female, age 40.
Admitted with symptoms
of meningitis
but has since developed
physiologic tremors
and unexplained
abdominal cramps.
Finally, someone's taking
a woman's cramps seriously.
Am I right?
Where my ladies at?
Sorry.
I want you all to study up
and get ready
to present theories.
Already have four. Five.
Ten.
If our patient does indeed
turn out to be a zebra,
Dr. Frost and I
will choose one of you
to assist us in treatment
and write up the case
for publication in a journal.
Oh,
I've already published twice,
so I can definitely handle it.
Daniel's not the only one
that's been published.
I wrote a very successful
advice column
in our school's science journal.
My nom de plume was Pipette.
Just to throw my
hat in the ring,
I have traveled
to many countries
where I've both
treated and contracted
a number of rare diseases.
Word of advice?
When the locals say
don't let a chicken
in your tent, listen.
Dr. Jacobs.
A word?
Before I go, I need someone
to take the lead
on the new admit in 510.
Just to check, the person
who takes this new admit
will not be in the running
to work on the zebra?
Correct.
Uh, and therefore
will not be eligible
to publish the case? That's right.
A-And this new patient
has something cool
or...?
The flu.
Thanks for volunteering,
Dr. Kenney.
Oh.
What the heck, you guys?
You know I love
a medical mystery.
Or any mystery. Murder?
Yes. Murder on a train?
Yes, of course. Murder in a castle?
That's my fa...
Stop distracting me.
What you just did was terrible.
I deserved a shot at the zebra.
Sorry, Carol.
Sometimes medicine isn't fair.
Really?
And you two weasels agree
with this?
Yes, because it serves
my immediate self-interest.
I'm sorry, Carol,
but if I can publish,
maybe I'll be known
as something other
than Dr. Frost's former
pickleball partner.
I should not have revealed that.
Pickleball, cornhole.
White people games are wild.
I would never have expected
this kind
of self-centered thinking
from... two of you.
Being a doctor is not
about personal glory.
We are a team.
A win for one of us
is a win for all of us. DANIEL:
Hmm.
Perfect.
When I publish my article,
I'll make sure
to acknowledge you.
Not inthe journal, obvi.
In a later Instagram post.
You know, whatever.
I'll bet my patient
has some sort of really cool,
exotic bird flu.
"Patient showing symptoms
of the common flu."
Don't read my chart.
What do you think you're doing?
My scrubs?
See, I thought if I tucked
the top into the pants,
it might give 'em more
of a fitted, fashiony look.
No.
What are you doing eating
my blueberry muffin?
Oh, th-this muffin
is your muffin?
I-I didn't know.
I'm sorry. I-I...
It wa... it was
right by the apples.
Dennis didn't tell me
it was yours.
It's hisfault.
Excuse me?
Just 'cause you're drowning,
don't drag me in the pool.
Would you, uh, would you like
an apple instead?
Honestly, muffins
aren't even that good for you.
A blueberry muffin is
my Wednesday treat.
Totally. Apple was a bad idea.
I will replace
this muffin for you.
As soon as we
figure out the zebra.
Or now. Perfect. I'll go now.
I mean, would I prefer to work
on a rare,
interesting illness? Sure.
Do I feel betrayed
by my best friends? You bet.
Is it too soon
to call them my best friends?
I am starting to think so.
But then I remember
that each individual patient
is fascinating in his own way.
Have you seen
Driving Miss Daisy?
I-It's about a black man
who has to tolerate
an old white lady.
Hello, Mr. Lewis.
I'm Dr. Kenney.
So, what seems to
be bothering you?
And, please,
spare no gory detail.
Well, I guess to start,
I'd have to say my head hurts
and I have a stomachache
and... yep.
That's about it.
Fascinating.
The cafeteria sold out
of blueberry muffins.
Wow, I can't wait to watch
the movie based on this.
If you're hungry, I have a bowl
of vegan chili in my locker.
Aah, you guys are no help!
I always assumed
residency would break one of us,
but, honestly,
I had my money on me.
Hey, I know we both want this,
but you're not gonna use
your relationship with Dr. Frost
to get picked for the zebra,
are you?
Of course not.
We'll compete on medicine alone.
So no country club shenanigans?
The Irish have shenanigans.
Country clubs have ballyhoo.
Dr. Gilani.
Dr. Sommers.
The zebra hunt continues.
Perhaps you two could
contribute your thoughts
to Mrs. Hamden's scans.
Well, uh, the MRI shows
minimal meningeal enhancement,
so the patient's symptoms
are unlikely to be
meningitis-related.
Spot-on. What else?
Uh...
Oh, I am seeing some
enlargement of the liver.
We might want to test
copper levels
to rule out Wilson's Disease.
Excellent observations,
Dr. Gilani.
But what Dr. Gilani missed
was this region
of discoloration.
Appears to be damaged tissue.
Possibly pulmonary fibrosis.
Good instincts, Dr. Sommers.
However, on closer examination,
that appears to be a thumbprint.
Excuse me?
The scan tech was mid-burrito.
I suspect that's less
pulmonary fibrosis,
more pico de gallo.
What an embarrassing and
disqualifying mistake
to have made.
Caleb, you know what
that reminds me of?
That time your father and I
were about to compete
for the Southampton
tennis championship.
Oh, uh, no,
I-I don't remember that.
What? Of course you do.
I spilled gazpacho
all over my whites.
You know, I did have
one more thought on that liver.
I'm interested. Uh, y-you know what?
It just came back to me.
I-I do remember telling you
not to eat in your whites.
But if I know Dr. Stephen Frost,
he can't resist a cold soup
on a hot day.
That's right.
He can't!
I-I never spilled soup
in the Hamptons,
but I did spill red wine
in the bathtub
at a Hampton Inn.
Hmm.
Uh, I still drank it.
Dr. Sommers, come with me.
We'll run a test
for copper levels.
On it.
Okay, sir, your IV is
successfully inserted.
And they say treating the flu
isn't as interesting
as some rare disease.
As if.
I love the flu.
I don't know, I might be
too close to it.
Let's just check your vitals.
Blood pressure 120/70.
That's extremely interesting. Really?
In as much as how normal it is.
I mean, people aren't
gonna be talking about it
around the water cooler,
but I don't know, I like it.
Gary...
how long have you had
these spots on your hands?
I don't know.
Huh. That's interesting.
Like normalinteresting,
or interestinginteresting?
Have you had any
bug bites recently?
A few, when I went camping.
Oh, and more spots
on your ankles.
Oh, Gary, now we're talking.
Dr. Jacobs, look
what I found.
I am ready to get back
on that zebra.
What is that?
It looks like it has smallpox.
Very astute eyes, Dr. Jacobs,
but, no, those are
cranberries. Cranberries?
The cafeteria was out
of blueberry,
but this one's a bran base
with cranberries.
It's a... cran-bran.
A cran-bran?
I'm impressed.
You managed to find a muffin
that's actually worse
than no muffin.
What is the deal
with this muffin?
Loud and clear.
I did have a backup plan.
If I could just
jam these bluebies
into this regular muffin
without smushing 'em...
You know what.
I'll just toss this one myself.
Lexie, I'm sorry.
I'm not proud that I used
my connection with Dr. Frost,
but if I can say one thing
in my defense... I panicked.
When he picks you to assist
with the zebra, just remember
you are a card-carrying
member of the patriarchy.
All right, listen up, you two.
Unfortunately, I have
some bad news about Mrs. Hamden.
She's not a zebra.Oh.
Turns out it's meningitis.
Just regular, vanilla,
viralmeningitis.
The cramping and tremors
were nicotine withdrawal.
She lied about being a smoker.
Ugh. A liar
anda smoker?
Who is this lady, my stepmom?
Look, I know we were all excited
about the zebra.
And I may not be around
for the next one,
so I want you youngsters,
always remember...
Ooh, fresh pot of coffee.
Mm.
Good news is, you didn't win.
The bad news is, neither did I.
Yeah. Maybe
it's for the best.
I mean, Carol was right.
Medicine should not be about
your own personal glory.
Listen up,
ordinary boring doctors.
Test results
from my "flu patient" came in.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Mama's got a zebra!
Welcome, everyone.
This is Gary,
or as I like to call him,
Carol's medical miracle.
Miracle? I'm cured?
Gary, don't be rude.
I'm talking.
Now, I first noticed
these unique spots
on Gary's wrists and ankles.
Let's see those tootsies,
Gare Bear.
And, you know, another doctor
might have brushed off his rash
as eczema or psoriasis.
However,
a thorough examination led me
to what I'm calling the keystone
of my diagnosis.
Tell us!
His recent camping trip.
Ah.It made me suspect
an insect-borne disease.
Now, tick-borne illnesses
are notoriously difficult
to differentiate.
The worst.Yes.
Yeah.
Conventional wisdom would
dictate that we go straight
to the Western blot test,
but in the absence
of the distinctive
Erythema Migrans rash,
I immediately tested
for Rickettsia rickettsii.
And, guys, I nailed it.
Gary has a case
of Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever.
Ah.
Oh!
Thank you.
We expect a full recovery.
Obviously,
this illness is extremely rare.
There are probably
more actual zebras
in Southern California
than cases like this.
Usually I'd discourage
that kind of glib
wordplay, but...
this zebra is
pretty exciting. No kidding.
Dr. Kenney, would you like
the assistance of either
of your fellow interns
to monitor treatment?
I'm generally pleasant
and willing to be a beta,
so maybe pick me?
Or keep in mind who
always helps you
connect to the printer.
Ah.
Such a difficult decision.
Who should I take with me
on this medical journey
of a lifetime?
You know what?
I couldn't possibly
take either of you away
from your regular patients.
Oh, th-they won't miss us.
Someone once told me...
And he was right...
Sometimes
medicine just isn't fair.
It's a personal goal
to never know the context
of this. Let's move.
Sorry it didn't work out.
I'm not sorry.
Listen, Dennis,
you seem to know how to
get things around here.
Now, I know we're not
exactly best friends...
Whoa.
Where is this coming from?
I consider us
pretty good friends.
Yo, for real?
That's so great to
hear, especially...
Okay, not nice.
Look, Dr. Jacobs holds
my professional future
in her muffin-less hands.
The only way I can
placate her is
to get her a cafeteria
blueberry muffin.
Now, can you help me?
Easy.
And I don't have to do
anything weird for it?
So now I have to think about
which medical journal to target.
Obviously, you have
your New England, which is,
you know,
your Harvard of journals.
But maybe I go indie?
I don't know, I've heard there's
some pretty cool journals
coming out of Portland
these days.
Hey, Carol. Didn't realize
there'd be a line
for the meet-and-greet.
Hi. Guys, this is Dr. Gilani
and Dr. Sommers.
They crushed it today
on their meningitis patient.
Bacterial? No, no, standard viral.
Pretty basic, but they're good.
Anyway, can you give us
a minute?
I got to give these cuties
a little face time.
Oh, my gosh.
Sorry about that.
They were just all
congratulating me on the zebra.
I don't know,
it's kind of embarrassing.
Carol, I don't mean to be harsh,
but with all this grandstanding,
you're acting like a surgeon.
Yeah, I would expect
this kind of behavior
from Daniel, but you, Carol?
What a shame.
So, are you guys mad?
It's just,
you're the one who said
you were all about teamwork
over personal glory.
But then you didn't
share your zebra.
Oh. So I guess
what's happening here
is, you're jealous
because I'm getting
all the praise and attention
that you tried to steal from me.
Well, you certainly seem
to be enjoying the spotlight.
I am. I'm loving it.
I haven't spent much
time in the spotlight,
'cause you know who doesn't
get enough attention?
Moms. And teachers.
And people
who run small bookstores.
I'm not that third thing,
but I think
they deserve more attention.
What is it?
My patient. He's crashing.
We're coming with you.
Hives. I think he's allergic
to the doxycycline.
Okay, everybody, he's in anaphylactic
shock. Tell us what you need.
Start a new IV,
bolus him with saline. On it.
Dr. Sommers,
you need to intubate
before we lose the airways.
No sedatives.
We don't want to risk paralysis
of the throat muscles.
You got it. Nurse, I need one of epi.
IV's in.
Patient is stabilizing.
All right, keep bagging him.
Let's get him to the ICU.
Great work, team.
Now, I give you this muffin,
you meet me outside
the men's room at 5:30 p.m.
I'm not just
agreeing to whatever...
Mmm...
Okay, fine, I'll
see you at 5:30.
Dr. Jacobs.
Thank you, Dr. Kutcher.
As you were.
What?! That's it?
I-I-I have to know.
Wha-What is so special
about this muffin?
Please.
Dr. Kutcher...
medicine is not a field
where one has a lot of control.
I rarely know what will happen
from one hour to the next.
But no matter who
dies or who lives
or who vomits in my hair,
every Wednesday morning I enjoy
a cafeteria blueberry muffin.
It's my anchor.
In a sea of unpredictability,
it's the one thing
I can depend on.
I suggest you find one.
Thank you.
That's very wise.
Maybe my anchor is you.
Your advice is...
Go get me some milk!
Okay.
Carol, you were
amazing in there.
You were like a general
or a quarterback
or a mom at a pool
with three kids.
I mean, I couldn't have done it
without you guys.
And I'm sorry I waited
till a real emergency
to let you help me out
with the zebra.
Oh, come on, Carol,
we always got your back.
I mean, not this morning,
obviously.
Threw you under the bus
pretty hard.
But, uh, almost always.
Excellent work, Dr. Kenney.
Now, go find yourself
a typewriter
because you've got
an article to write.
Hey, Dr. Frost, would it be okay
if the three of us
wrote up the article together?
As co-authors?
I mean, I'll be
the first name, obvi.
Then me, obvi.
And then Dr. Jacobs,
then some other people,
and then you guys.
And I'll acknowledge Daniel
in a later Instagram post.
Excellent plan.
Are you even on Instagram?
Yeah, she is.
She has four
followers, zero posts,
and her account is private.
And I forgot my password.
And here we have another snake.
Seriously.
I don't think these teenagers
really like having a clown.
Yeah, doesn't look like it.
Seems a bit young for them.
Then why do you hire clowns?
Oh, we don't.
So I'm not filling in
for anybody? No.
Then what am I doing here?
Oh, this is just for me.
Damn it, Dennis!
Daniel, oh, are you a clown?
Yes. Long story.
Who got the zebra?
Carol did, but we got to help.
Great. Everyone but me.
Great day for Daniel.
Uh, your name is Pepperoni.
Now, make the kids
another snake.
Captioning sponsored by CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org